Who we've come an incredibly long way.
Well done for getting this far.
I hope you've had a lot of fun.
I hope you enjoy it.
But it's now just quickly give a summary of what we've done and where we can place our JavaScript code
to speed things up.
I split it up into six main categories, right?
The most obvious number one is you can place your JavaScript code anywhere, but then you just need
to realize that you're going to be blocking the DOM at the point your partner gets to your script.
And if it's a very simple site that may be perfectly fine and plausible too, we can place our JavaScript
below the main Dom directly above our closing body tank.
This is website 101.
This is what we've all been told to do, and although it's good practice to do this, it might be suboptimal.
And I say that because think about what it is, it's going to be happening.
When you put the JavaScript at the bottom, you would agree with me that before the final, render before
the final paint your screen.
Those JavaScript files have to be executed, don't they?
For those reasons, sometimes placing the JavaScript file directly above your closing body tag isn't
quite the most optimal thing you can do.
Three.
If your JavaScript code doesn't rely on the DOM, we can use that async attribute.
So does this mean will this just means if your code doesn't rely on your dom being loaded and it runs
more as part of team or things for other scripts in your document, then you can place a script at the
top of your page with the async attribute set on it, and your browser will determine when the most
optimal point is for it to execute that file, and it'll featured in the background.
Remember, asynchronously Alcool set and number four with our JavaScript code does rely on our Dom being
fully constructed.
Then we can use defer and the benefit was using defer is that it holds off executing their JavaScript
file just before the moment of Dom content loaded event occurs.
Well, Clyde, you might be asking, isn't this just the same as placing our JavaScript below the Dom
directly above our closing body tag?
And it almost is the same.
That's a very good question, but was deferred.
Remember what we're doing?
We're allowing the browser to fetch JavaScript asynchronously in the background.
So by the time the Dom is fully loaded, the JavaScript file is already there and it can immediately
execute.
Whereas if we just place it above the chosing body tag, remember what happens then?
Well, your browser's poor, so can't reach any other file when it hits such cryptic call number five.
If you really want to be specific and these don't quite give you what you want, then you can build
your own custom load of it and you've obviously got a few different methods.
We've seen that we can add our own event system to the window object called load.
We've done that.
We've seen that's been awesome anyway.
And then the last one is number six and that is preload and preload gives you a lot of flexibility because
it allows you to tell the browser to download and cache a resource like a script or a style sheet as
soon as possible.
So it's very helpful when you need a specific resource.
A few seconds after loading the page and you want to speed up the critical rendering path.
Remember this with the preload?
This is a very important point.
The browser doesn't do anything with the resource after downloading it by using preload.
Scripts aren't executed.
Style sheets aren't applied.
They are just cached so that when something else needs it, it's available immediately.
So think about preloading as literally just pre fitting.
It's you telling the browser, Hey, get this resource as quickly as possible.
So in our code needs it, it's there.
Hope it's making sense.
And again, well done for getting this file.
I'll see you in the next section.